New guide: container style queries (#32254)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/css_containment/container_size_and_style_queries/index.md

We could have limited the elements matched by the query by adding a name to the `<container-condition>`. We could also have limited the `@container` queries applicable to {{htmlelement("form")}} elements by setting a {{cssxref("container-name")}}.

## Naming containers

A `<container-condition>` can include an optional case-sensitive {{cssxref("container-name")}}.

```css
@container <container-name> <container-query> {
  /* <stylesheet> */
}
```

The `<container-name>` is a case-sensitive {{cssxref("ident")}}. You can use the {{cssxref("container-name")}} property or the {{cssxref("container")}} shorthand to give container elements a name to ensure that the elements are only matched by the limited set of container queries that contain the same container name in the `@container` query condition. That name needs to match the value of the `container-name` property of the element for the query to apply to that element. The name filters the set of query containers considered to those with a matching query container name.

> Container names also enable querying styles from elements that aren't a direct parent. When a containment context is given a name, it can be specifically targeted using the `@container` at-rule instead of the nearest ancestor with containment.

Author: I rearranged this section.

```css
@container card (orientation: landscape) and (max-width: 40rem) {
  /* styles */
}

.cards li {
  container-type: inline-size;
  container-name: card;
}
```

In this container size query example, the query is limited to only elements with `container-name: card` applied. The styles within the query block will apply to the descendants of all list items nested within an element with a class of `cards` with a width that is greater than its height. The styles within the container query style block will apply to the descendants of the {{htmlelement("li")}} elements that match the size query that are descendants of an element with a [`class`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/class) of `card`. If other elements have `card` within their space-separated `container-name` value and match the size query, the styles will be applied to those elements' descendants as well.

> Set `container-name: none` to prevent the container from matching any named container queries. That removes all associated container query names, but does not prevent the element from matching unnamed queries. To prevent an element from being a size container, set `container-type: normal`. This removes containment, meaning the element isn't a size container but it can still be a [style container](#container_style_queries). To prevent an element from being matched by any container queries, provide it with an unused `container-name`.

Author: added the following:

```css
article {
  container-name: none;
  container-type: size;
}

main {
  container-name: neverUsedName;
  container-type: normal;
}
```

> In the above example, the {{htmlelement("article")}} element can matched any unnamed container query. In other words, it will be tested by each `@container` query that doesn't include a name in the `<container-condition>`. On the other hand, assuming the `neverUsedName` is never used as a container query name, the {{htmlelement("main")}} element will never be queried. If it is, it will still not be tested against any size queries as the `container-type` value of `normal` means it is not a size query container.

    not style(background-color: red),
    style(--themeBackground),
    style(--themeColor: blue) or style(--themeColor: purple) {
  /* <stylesheet> */
}
```

The `style()` functional notation is used to differentiate style queries from a size queries. While not yet supported, we will eventually be able to query regular CSS declarations such as `max-width: 100vw`. Querying `@containers (max-width: 100vw)` is a size query; containment with {{cssxref("container-type")}}, or the {{cssxref("container")}} shorthand, is needed. That query will return true if the container is 100vw or less. That is different from querying `@containers style(max-width: 100vw)` which is a style query; when supported, this query will return true if the container has a {{cssxref("max-width")}} value of `100vw`.

Until style queries for regular CSS declarations and properties are supported, we are limited to including only custom properties as the `style()` parameter, with or without a value:

```css
@container style(--themeBackground),
    style(--themeColor: blue) or style(--themeColor: purple) {
  /* <stylesheet> */
}
```

A few things to note:

> - All elements can be style query containers; setting a `container-type` is not required. When descendant styles don't impact the computed styles of an ancestor, containment is not needed.

Reviewer: ah, so this is true. I'm thinking maybe just remove the stuff about size queries needing containment from above, and deal with it here, to simplify the earlier paragraph.

> - A `<container-condition>` can include both style and size features. If including size features, include the `container-type` property.

Reviewer: Do you have an example included later on to show what it looks like when both are included?

- If you don't want an element to be considered as a container, ever, give it a `container-name` that will not be used. Setting `container-name: none` removes any query names associated with a container; it does not prevent the element from being a style container.
- At the time of this writing (February 2024), container style queries only work with CSS custom property values in the `style()` query.

Now, let's dive in and take a look at the different `<style-feature>` types:

### Style queries for custom properties

> Style queries for custom properties allow you to query the custom properties, also called "CSS variables", of a parent element. [Custom properties are CSS properties](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Using_CSS_custom_properties). They are included within a `<style-query>` just as you would include any regular CSS property within a feature query: either with a value as a CSS property assignment or without the value as a custom property name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Style queries for custom properties allow you to query the [custom properties](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Using_CSS_custom_properties), also called "CSS variables", of a parent element. They are included within a `<style-query>` just as you would include any regular CSS property within a feature query: either with or without a value.
```

> #### Stand alone custom property queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Standalone custom property queries
```

> The `<style-query>` parameter of the `style()` functional notation can include just a CSS variable name; a custom property with no value. When no value is included, the query will return false if the value is the same ase the value of the `initial-value` descriptor within the `@property` at-rule, if there is one. The style query will return true and match all elements that have a custom property value that differs from the `initial-value` or for all elements that have a custom property of any value if the custom property was declared without being registered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<style-query>` parameter of the `style()` functional notation can include just a CSS variable name; a custom property with no value. When no value is included, the query will return false if the value is the same as the value of the `initial-value` descriptor within the `@property` at-rule, if there is one. The style query will return true and match all elements that have a custom property value that differs from the `initial-value` or for all elements that have a custom property of any value if the custom property was declared without being registered.
```

Reviewer: To be honest, I'm really struggling to understand the last sentence in this paragraph. Can you try rephrasing it/breaking it up a bit?

Reviewer: Also, you talk about an example that uses `@property` above, but then you show an example that doesn't include `@property`.

Reviewer: Also, this bit sounds contradictory — "When no value is included, the query will return false if the value..." I thought there was no value?

```css
:root {
  --theme-color: rebeccapurple;
}

@container style(--theme-color) {
  /* <stylesheet> */
}
```

In this example, the container query matches the element on which the `--theme-color` property was declared and all of its descendants. As the CSS variable `--theme-color` was declared on the {{cssxref(":root")}}, the style query `style(--theme-color)` will be true for every element within that {{glossary("DOM")}}.

If explicitly defined with the {{cssxref("@property")}} CSS at-rule or via JavaScript with {{domxref('CSS/registerProperty_static', 'CSS.registerProperty')}}, the style query `style(--theme-color)` will only be true for elements where the computed value for `--theme-color` is different from the [`initial-value`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@property/initial-value) set in the original definition.

```css
@property --theme-color {
  initial-value: rebeccapurple;
  inherited: true;
}

:root {
  --theme-color: rebeccapurple;
}

main {
  --theme-color: blue;
}

@container style(--theme-color) {
  /* <stylesheet> */
}
```

> In this example, the `:root` element would not NOT match the style query as the custom property value for that element (and all the elements inheriting the value) is the same as the `initial-value`. Only elements that override that value, in this case the {{htmlelement("main")}} and its descendants, are a match.

Reviewer: I've read this bit a few times now, and I don't understand why this is the case.

#### Custom property with a value

If a style query includes a value for the custom property, the element's computed value for that property must be an exact match, with equivalent values only being a match if the custom property was defined with the {{cssxref("@property")}} at rule (or via JavaScript with {{domxref('CSS/registerProperty_static', 'CSS.registerProperty')}}) containing a `syntax` descriptor.

```css

> @container style(--accent-color: blue) {

Reviewer: show an example element that matches it?

  /* <stylesheet> */
}
```

This container style query matches any element that has `blue` as the {{cssxref("computed_value")}} of for the `--accent-color` custom property.

In this case, the equivalent hexidecimal code `#0000ff` will match only if the property was defined as a color with `@property` or `CSS.registerProperty`. To ensure the container style query matches all cases equivalent to sRGB `blue`, we would declare the `--accent-color` like so:

```css
@property --accent-color {
  syntax: "<color>";
  inherits: true;
  initial-value: #00f;
}
```

> In this case, if the value of `--accent-color` were set to `blue`, `#00f`, `#0000ff`, `rgb(0 0 255 / 1)`, or `rgb(0% 0% 100%)` it would return true for `@container style(--accent-color: blue)`.

Reviewer: Explain a bit more about why having the `syntax` descriptor set to `<color>` makes this so.

Author: That is beyond the scope of this guide. Unfortunately, there are issues with the rgb docs on mdn, so not linking now. but i'll be updating those pages next month or so, so can link then.

##### Example

In this example, we have a {{htmlelement("fieldset")}} with four radio buttons. The fourth option includes a text {{htmlelement("input")}} for entering a custom color.

```html
<fieldset>
  <legend>Change the value of <code>--theme</code></legend>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <input type="radio" name="selection" value="red" id="red" />
      <label for="red">--theme: red;</label>
    </li>
    <li>
      <input type="radio" name="selection" value="green" id="green" />
      <label for="green">--theme: green</label>
    </li>
    <li>
      <input type="radio" name="selection" value="blue" id="blue" />
      <label for="blue">--theme: blue</label>
    </li>
    <li>
      <input type="radio" name="selection" value="currentcolor" id="other" />
      <label for="other">Other</label>
      <label for="color">color:</label>
      <input text="checkbox" name="selection" value="currentcolor" id="color" />
    </li>
  </ol>
</fieldset>
<output>I change colors</output>
```

> JavaScript updates the value of the CSS `--theme` variable on the {{htmlelement("body")}} element, which is an ancestor of the {{htmlelement("fieldset")}} and {{htmlelement("output")}} elements, whenever a radio button is selected. When the text `<input>` is updated, the {{domxref("HTMLInputElement", "value")}} of the `other` is updated, updating the value of `--theme` if the `other` radio button is {{domxref("HTMLInputElement", "checked")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JavaScript updates the value of the CSS `--theme` variable on the {{htmlelement("body")}} element, which is an ancestor of the {{htmlelement("fieldset")}} and {{htmlelement("output")}} elements, whenever a radio button is selected. When the text `<input>` is updated, the {{domxref("HTMLInputElement.value", "value")}} of the `other` radio button is updated only if the `other` radio button is {{domxref("HTMLInputElement.checked", "checked")}}, which in turn updates the value of `--theme`.
```

Reviewer: I'm not really sure if this example is working as you intended it to. I've tried it in Chrome...

```js
const radios = document.querySelectorAll('input[name="selection"]');
const body = document.querySelector("body");
const other = document.getElementById("other");
const color = document.getElementById("color");

for (let i = 0; i < radios.length; i++) {
  radios[i].addEventListener("change", (e) => {
    body.style.setProperty("--theme", e.target.value);
  });
}
color.addEventListener("input", (e) => {
  other.style.setProperty("value", e.target.value);
  if (other.checked) {
    body.style.setProperty("--theme", e.target.value);
  }
});
```

> We use the `@property` at-rule to define a CSS variable `--theme` to be a {{cssxref("color_value", "&lt;color>")}} value and set the `initial-value` to `#00F`, ensuring equivalent colors are a match whether declared using {{cssxref("rgb")}}, {{cssxref("hex-color")}}, {{cssxref("named-color")}}, or other syntax (for example, `#F00` is equal to `rgb(255 0 0)`, `#ff0000`, and `red`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use the `@property` at-rule to define a CSS variable `--theme` to be a {{cssxref("color_value", "&lt;color>")}} value and set the `initial-value` to `#00F`, ensuring equivalent colors are a match whether declared using {{cssxref("rgb")}}, {{cssxref("hex-color")}}, {{cssxref("named-color")}}, or other syntax (for example, `#F00` is equal to `rgb(255 0 0)`, `#ff0000`, and `red`).
```

```css
@property --theme {
  syntax: "<color>";
  inherits: false;
  initial-value: #f00;
}
```

```css hidden
output {
  padding: 3px 5px;
  margin-top: 5px;
}
```

The first style feature query is a custom property with no value. This query type returns true when the computed value for the custom property value is different from the `initial-value` for that property. In this case, it will be true when the value of `--theme` is any value other than any syntax equivalent value of`#f00` ( such as `red`). When true, the {{htmlelement("output")}} will have a dotted outline.

```css
@container style(--theme) {
  output {
    outline: 2px dotted;
    color: #777;
  }
}
```

These two style queries include values for the custom property. These will match if the container's `--theme` value is an equivalent color to the value listed, even if that value is the same as the `initial-value`. The first query matches elements whose `--theme` value is equivalent to `red`, `blue`, or `green`. When it is, the {{cssxref("color")}} will be the color current value of `--theme`.

> The second style query states that when `--theme` is equivalent `red`, the `<output>`'s contents will also be bold. We did this to better demonstrate that the container query is a match,

Reviewer: Missing end of sentence?

Author: just a period ;)

```css
@container style(--theme: green) or style(--theme: blue) or style(--theme: red) {
  output {
    color: var(--theme);
  }
}

@container style(--theme: red) {
  output {
    font-weight: bold;
  }
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample('example','100%','200')}}

> Try changing the color value. Notice that any equivalent of `red` will make the `<output>` red, while removing the outline. Any other valid color value, including `currentcolor` or `hsl(180 100% 50%)`, etc., makes the first style query return true. Valid values for the {{cssxref("color")}} property that aren't value `<color>` values, such as `unset` or `inherit`, are [invalid](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_syntax/Error_handling), and will be ignored. When invalid, the `--theme` value inherits its initial value.

Reviewer: I think I must be tired, but I don't really get the point of this example. I'm still not clear on how this example works, or what you'd use it for. I appreciate this is quite esoteric stuff, so probably hard to figure out a solid use case for.

Author: I added more text explaining how to fill in the text box and what to expect and why.

### Nested queries

Container queries can be nested within other container queries. The styles defined inside multiple nested container queries are applied when all of the wrapping container queries are true.

```css
@container style(--theme: red) {
  output {
    outline: 1px dotted;
  }
  @container style(--theme: purple) {
    output {
      outline: 5px dotted;
    }
  }
}
```

In this case, the `<output>` will have a large dotted border if it's nested in a container where `--theme: purple` is set, and that container is nested within a container whose `--theme` value is `red`.

### Style query CSS declarations and properties

Not yet supported in any browser, the `style()` functional notation can include regular CSS declarations including CSS properties and property value pairs.

```css
@container style(font-weight: bold) {
  b,
  strong {
    background: yellow;
  }
}
```

When supported, this basic example will make the background color of any {{htmlelement("b")}} and {{htmlelement("strong")}} elements yellow when the parent is already `bold`.

> The matching is done against the computed value of the parent container; if the parent's computed {{cssxref("font-weight")}} is `bold` (not `bolder` or `900`), there is a match. Just as with custom property container style queries, we did not have to define any elements as style containers as all elements are style containers by default. As long as an element doesn't have a `container-name` set, if it has `font-weight: bold` set or inherited, it will match.

Reviewer: This stuff makes total sense! Shame it's not supported yet ;-)

> Style features that query a shorthand property will be true if the computed values match for each of its longhand properties, and false otherwise. For example, `@container style({{cssxref("border")}}: 2px solid red)` will resolve to true if all 12 longhand properties ({{cssxref("border-bottom-style")}}, etc.) that make up that shorthand are true.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Style features that query a shorthand property will be true if the computed values match for each of its longhand properties, and false otherwise. For example, `@container style({{cssxref("border")}}: 2px solid red)` will resolve to true if all 12 longhand properties ({{cssxref("border-bottom-style")}}, etc.) that make up that shorthand are set to the same equivalent values.
```

The global CSS values `revert` and `revert-layer` are invalid as values in a `<style-feature>` and cause the container style query to be false.

> Do not apply the styles you are querying in the style query to the element you are styling with that query as this may cause an infinite loop.

Reviewer: An example to illustrate what you mean would be good here.

Author: that is needed on the @container page, not here.

It is expected that style queries will also accept properties in a boolean context. The style query will return false if the value of the property is the initial value for that property (if it has not been changed), and true otherwise.

```css
@container style(font-weight) {
}
```

> The above will return true for any element that has a value for `font-weight` that differs from its initial value. User-agent stylesheets set `font-weight: bold` for {{htmlelement("heading_elements", "heading elements")}} and {{htmlelement("th")}}. Some browsers set {{htmlelement("strong")}} and {{htmlelement("b")}} to `bold`, others to `bolder`. {{htmlelement("optgroup")}} also sometimes has a `font-weight` other than `normal` set by the user agent. As long as the element's font-weight is no the default value for that user-agent, the style query will return true.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above example will return true for any element that has a value for `font-weight` that differs from its initial value. User-agent stylesheets set `font-weight: bold` for {{htmlelement("heading_elements", "heading")}} and {{htmlelement("th")}} elements, for example. Some browsers set {{htmlelement("strong")}} and {{htmlelement("b")}} to `bold`, others to `bolder`. {{htmlelement("optgroup")}} also sometimes has a `font-weight` other than `normal` set by the user agent. As long as the element's font-weight is not the default value for that user-agent, the style query will return true.
```

}
```

In this container size query example, the element has two containers names. The descendants of any elements with `class="sizeContainer"` will get the styles from the `wide` or `narrow` query applied (or both if that element is exactly a 20em square).

Container names also enable querying styles from elements that aren't a direct parent. When a containment context is given a name, it can be specifically targeted using the `@container` at-rule instead of the nearest ancestor with containment.

Set `container-name: none` to prevent the container from matching any named container queries. That removes all associated container query names, but does not prevent the element from matching unnamed queries.

To prevent an element from being a size container, set `container-type: normal`. This removes containment, meaning the element isn't a size container but it can still be a [style container](#container_style_queries).

To prevent an element from being matched by any container queries, provide it with an unused `container-name`.

```css
article {
  container-name: none;
  container-type: size;
}

main {
  container-name: neverUsedName;
  container-type: normal;
}
```

> In the above example, the {{htmlelement("article")}} element can matched any unnamed container query. In other words, it will be tested by each `@container` query that doesn't include a name in the `<container-condition>`. On the other hand, assuming the `neverUsedName` is never used as a container query name, the {{htmlelement("main")}} element will never be queried. If it is, it will still not be tested against any size queries as the `container-type` value of `normal` means it is not a size query container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example, the {{htmlelement("article")}} element can match any unnamed container query. In other words, it will be tested by each `@container` query that doesn't include a name in the `<container-condition>`. On the other hand, assuming the `neverUsedName` is never used as a container query name, the {{htmlelement("main")}} element will never be queried. Even if that name was removed, it would still not be tested against any size queries as the `container-type` value of `normal` means it is not a size query container.
```

With container queries, we are not limited to size queries! You can also query a container's style features.

## Container style queries

> A _container style query_ is a `@container` query that evaluates computed styles of the container element as defined in one or more `style()` functional notations. The boolean syntax and logic used to combine style features into a style query is the same as in [CSS feature queries](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_conditional_rules/Using_feature_queries). The only difference is the function name — `style()` within a `<style-feature>` as opposed to `supports()`within a `<support-condition>`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _container style query_ is a `@container` query that evaluates computed styles of the container element as defined in one or more `style()` functional notations. The boolean syntax and logic used to combine style features into a style query are the same as in [CSS feature queries](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_conditional_rules/Using_feature_queries). The only difference is the function name — `style()` within a `<style-feature>` as opposed to `supports()` within a `<support-condition>`:
```

```css
@container style(<style-feature>),
    not style(<style-feature>),
    style(<style-feature>) and style(<style-feature>),
    style(<style-feature>) or style(<style-feature>) {
  /* <stylesheet> */
}
```

> The parameter of each `style()` function is a single `<style-feature>`. Per the CSS containment specification, a **`<style-feature>`** can be a valid CSS [declaration](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/syntax#css_declarations), a CSS property, or a [`<custom-property-name>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/var#values). The only style feature currently supported is custom properties, with or without a value. See the [browser compatibility table](#browser_compatibility).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The parameter of each `style()` function is a single **`<style-feature>`**. Per the CSS containment specification, a `<style-feature>` can be a valid CSS [declaration](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/syntax#css_declarations), a CSS property, or a [`<custom-property-name>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/var#values). The only style feature currently supported is custom properties, with or without a value. See the [browser compatibility table](#browser_compatibility).
```

> If the `<style-feature>` includes a value, the style query evaluates to true if the computed value of the custom property value (or, in the future, the CSS declaration) passed as the `style()` argument is true for the container being queried. Otherwise, it resolves to false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `<style-feature>` includes a value, the style query evaluates to true if the computed value of the custom property (or, in the future, the CSS declaration) passed as the `style()` argument is true for the container being queried. Otherwise, it resolves to false.
```

> A style feature without a value evaluates to true if the computed value is different from the initial value for the given property.

Reviewer: That's only true when the custom property is explicitly defined using `@property` (or `CSS.registerProperty()`), right?

Also, I'd love to see a bit more explanation about why this is true. I understand what it is saying, but I don't really get why it is the case, or why this is useful.

Author: added a link to the new registered properties heading.

    not style(background-color: red),
    style(--themeBackground),
    style(--themeColor: blue) or style(--themeColor: purple),
    (max-width: 100vw) and style(max-width: 600px) {
  /* <stylesheet> */
}
```

The `style()` functional notation is used to differentiate style queries from size queries. While not yet supported, we will eventually be able to query regular CSS declarations such as `max-width: 100vw`. Querying `@containers (max-width: 100vw)` is a size query; containment with {{cssxref("container-type")}}, or the {{cssxref("container")}} shorthand, is needed. That query will return true if the container is 100vw or less. That is different from querying `@containers style(max-width: 100vw)`, which is a style query; when supported, this query will return true if the container has a {{cssxref("max-width")}} value of `100vw`.

Until style queries for regular CSS declarations and properties are supported, we are limited to including only custom properties as the `style()` parameter, with or without a value:

```css
@container style(--themeBackground),
    style(--themeColor: blue) or style(--themeColor: purple) {
  /* <stylesheet> */
}
```

> A few things to note:

Reviewer: The below points all seem to be recapping stuff said previously. Maybe frame it as a recap, or a summary?

- A `<container-condition>` can include both style and size features. If including size features in your query, make sure your container elements have a `container-type` of `size` or `inline-size` set.
- If you don't want an element to be considered as a container, ever, give it a `container-name` that will not be used. Setting `container-name: none` removes any query names associated with a container; it does not prevent the element from being a style container.
- At the time of this writing (February 2024), container style queries only work with CSS custom property values in the `style()` query.

Now, let's dive in and take a look at the different `<style-feature>` types:

### Style queries for custom properties

Style queries for custom properties allow you to query the [custom properties](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Using_CSS_custom_properties), also called "CSS variables", of a parent element. They are included within a `<style-query>` just as you would include any regular CSS property within a feature query: either with or without a value.

#### Standalone custom property queries

> The `<style-query>` parameter of the `style()` functional notation can include just a CSS variable name; a custom property with no value. When no value is included, the query will return false if the value is the same as the value of the `initial-value` descriptor within the `@property` at-rule, if there is one. The style query will return true and match all elements that have a custom property value that differs from the `initial-value` or for all elements that have a custom property of any value if the custom property was declared without being registered.

Reviewer: I'm starting to understand what is going on here now. However, I think mixing the two different cases here — the one where the custom property is just used without an explicit definition, and the one where the custom property is explicitly defined using `@property` (or `CSS.registerProperty()`) makes things more confusing than it needs to be. I would just talk about them in completely separate sections, before then comparing them and pointing out the differences at the end of the second section.

Author: i added a header for register properties.

```css
:root {
  --theme-color: rebeccapurple;
}

@container style(--theme-color) {
  /* <stylesheet> */
}
```

In this example, the container query matches the element on which the `--theme-color` property was declared and all of its descendants. As the CSS variable `--theme-color` was declared on the {{cssxref(":root")}}, the style query `style(--theme-color)` will be true for every element within that {{glossary("DOM")}}.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

#### Registered properties
```

> If explicitly defined with the {{cssxref("@property")}} CSS at-rule or via JavaScript with {{domxref('CSS/registerProperty_static', 'CSS.registerProperty')}}, the style query `style(--theme-color)` will only be true for elements where the computed value for `--theme-color` is different from the [`initial-value`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@property/initial-value) set in the original definition. This is different from the example above in which the CSS variable was introduced via a simple CSS custom property value assignment; in that case querying that custom property will always return true.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If explicitly defined with the {{cssxref("@property")}} CSS at-rule or via JavaScript with {{domxref('CSS/registerProperty_static', 'CSS.registerProperty()')}}, the style query `style(--theme-color)` will only be true for elements where the computed value for `--theme-color` is different from the [`initial-value`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@property/initial-value) set in the original definition. This is different from the example above in which the CSS variable was introduced via a simple CSS custom property value assignment; in that case querying that custom property will always return true.
```

```css
@property --theme-color {
  initial-value: rebeccapurple;
  inherited: true;
}

:root {
  --theme-color: rebeccapurple;
}

main {
  --theme-color: blue;
}

@container style(--theme-color) {
  /* <stylesheet> */
}
```

> In this example, the `:root` element would not NOT match the style query as the custom property value for that element (and all the elements inheriting the value) is the same as the `initial-value`. The `initial-value` is `rebeccapurple`. The value assignment in `:root` is also `rebeccapurple`. Only elements that differ from the initial value, in this case the {{htmlelement("main")}} and its descendants that inherit that changed value, are a match.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the `:root` element would NOT match the style query as the custom property value for that element (and all the elements inheriting the value) is the same as the `initial-value` — both are `rebeccapurple`. Only elements that differ from the initial value, in this case the {{htmlelement("main")}} and its descendants that inherit that changed value, are a match.
```

#### Custom property with a value

> If a style query includes a value for the custom property, the element's computed value for that property must be an exact match, with equivalent values only being a match if the custom property was defined with the {{cssxref("@property")}} at rule (or via JavaScript with {{domxref('CSS/registerProperty_static', 'CSS.registerProperty')}}) containing a `syntax` descriptor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a style query includes a value for the custom property, the element's computed value for that property must be an exact match, with equivalent values only being a match if the custom property was defined with a {{cssxref("@property")}} at rule (or a {{domxref('CSS/registerProperty_static', 'CSS.registerProperty()')}} method call) containing a `syntax` descriptor.
```

```css
@container style(--accent-color: blue) {
  /* <stylesheet> */
}
```

> This container style query matches any element that has `blue` as the {{cssxref("computed_value")}} of for the `--accent-color` custom property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This container style query matches any element that has `blue` as the {{cssxref("computed_value")}} of the `--accent-color` custom property.
```

> In this case, the equivalent hexidecimal code `#0000ff` will match only if the property was defined as a color with `@property` or `CSS.registerProperty`. To ensure the container style query matches all cases equivalent to sRGB `blue`, we would declare the `--accent-color` like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, other color values equivalent to sRGB `blue` (such as the hexadecimal code `#0000ff`) will match only if the `--accent-color` property was defined as a color with `@property` or `CSS.registerProperty()`, for example:
```

```css
@property --accent-color {
  syntax: "<color>";
  inherits: true;

>   initial-value: #00f;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  initial-value: #0000ff;
```

Author: this was intentional

      <input text="checkbox" name="selection" value="currentcolor" id="color" />
    </li>
  </ol>
</fieldset>
<output>I change colors</output>
```

JavaScript updates the value of the CSS `--theme` variable on the {{htmlelement("body")}} element, which is an ancestor of the {{htmlelement("fieldset")}} and {{htmlelement("output")}} elements, whenever a radio button is selected. When the text `<input>` is updated, the {{domxref("HTMLInputElement.value", "value")}} of the `other` radio button is updated only if the `other` radio button is {{domxref("HTMLInputElement.checked", "checked")}}, which in turn updates the value of `--theme`.

```js
const radios = document.querySelectorAll('input[name="selection"]');
const body = document.querySelector("body");
const other = document.getElementById("other");
const color = document.getElementById("color");

for (let i = 0; i < radios.length; i++) {
  radios[i].addEventListener("change", (e) => {
    body.style.setProperty("--theme", e.target.value);
  });
}
color.addEventListener("input", (e) => {
  other.style.setProperty("value", e.target.value);
  if (other.checked) {
    body.style.setProperty("--theme", e.target.value);
  }
});
```

> We use the `@property` at-rule to define a CSS variable `--theme` to be a {{cssxref("color_value", "&lt;color>")}} value and set the `initial-value` to `#00F`, ensuring equivalent colors are a match whether declared using {{cssxref("rgb")}}, {{cssxref("hex-color")}}, {{cssxref("named-color")}}, or other syntax (for example, `#F00` is equal to `rgb(255 0 0)`, `#ff0000`, and `red`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use the `@property` at-rule to define a CSS variable `--theme` to be a {{cssxref("color_value", "&lt;color&gt;")}} value and set the `initial-value` to `#00F`, ensuring equivalent colors are a match regardless of what syntax is used (for example, `#F00` is equal to `rgb(255 0 0)`, `#ff0000`, and `red`).
```

Reviewer: I think mentioning things like the named-color data type makes this more complicated than needed. It is already quite complicated.

```css
@property --theme {
  syntax: "<color>";
  inherits: true;
  initial-value: #f00;
}
```

```css hidden
output {
  padding: 3px 5px;
  margin-top: 5px;
}
```

The first style feature query is a custom property with no value. This query type returns true when the computed value for the custom property value is different from the `initial-value` for that property. In this case, it will be true when the value of `--theme` is any value other than any syntax equivalent value of`#f00` ( such as `red`). When true, the {{htmlelement("output")}} will have a dotted outline.

```css
@container style(--theme) {
  output {
    outline: 2px dotted;
    color: #777;
  }
}
```

> These two style queries include values for the custom property. These will match if the container's `--theme` value is an equivalent color to the value listed, even if that value is the same as the `initial-value`. The first query matches elements whose `--theme` value is equivalent to `red`, `blue`, or `green`. When it is, the {{cssxref("color")}} will be the color current value of `--theme`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second and third style queries include values for the custom property. These will match if the container's `--theme` value is an equivalent color to the value listed, even if that value is the same as the `initial-value`. The first query matches elements whose `--theme` value is equivalent to `red`, `blue`, or `green`. When it is, the {{cssxref("color")}} will be the color current value of `--theme`.
```

> The second style query states that when `--theme` is equivalent `red`, the `<output>`'s contents will also be bold. We did this to better demonstrate that the container query is a match.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second style query states that when `--theme` is equivalent to `red`, the `<output>`'s contents will also be bold. We did this to better demonstrate that the container query is a match.
```

```css
@container style(--theme: green) or style(--theme: blue) or style(--theme: red) {
  output {
    color: var(--theme);
  }
}

@container style(--theme: red) {
  output {
    font-weight: bold;
  }
}
```

> {{EmbedLiveSample('example','100%','200')}}

Reviewer: The example makes a bit more sense now. There seem to be bugs with the "Other color" field:

- If you set the value in the text field as `red`, `blue`, or `green`, the output seems to behave as described.
- If you set it to a valid color that isn't `red`, `blue`, or `green`, the output goes gray and dotted
- If you set it to a non-valid color, e.g. `^%^**`, it goes bold and red
- If you set it to equivalent color representations of `red`, `blue`, or `green`, you get a variety of behavior — for `rgb(0 255 0)`, you get gray and dotted (not green). For `rgb(0 0 255)`, you get blue and dotted. For `rgb(255 0 0)`, you get bold and red.

Is that the behavior you expected? I tested it in the latest Chrome Canary.

Author: yes, exactly as expected.

> Enter different color values into the text box. You may notice that values that are RGB equivalents of `red` will make the `<output>` red - as it matches `style(--theme: red)`, while removing the outline, because `style(--theme)` returns false if the element's value for `--theme` is the same as the initial value for `--theme` defined in by the `@property` at-ryle. Any non-red RGB valid color value, including `currentcolor` or `hsl(180 100% 50%)`, etc., makes the first style query return true; they are values that are different from the `iniitial-value`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Try entering different color values into the text box. You may notice that values that are sRGB equivalents of `red` will make the `<output>` red — as it matches `style(--theme: red)` — while removing the outline, because `style(--theme)` returns false if the element's value for `--theme` is the same as the initial value for `--theme` defined by the `@property` at-rule. Any non-red sRGB valid color value, including `currentcolor` or `hsl(180 100% 50%)`, etc., makes the first style query return true; they are values that are different from the `initial-value`.
```

If you enter `unset` or `gibberish`, the JavaScript updates the `style` on the {{HTMLElement("body")}} to `--theme: unset` or `--theme: gibberish`. Neither of these are colors. Both are invalid and ignored. This means the initial value is inherited and unchanged, with `style(--theme)` returning false and `style(--theme: red)` returning true.

> **Note:** When declaring custom properties, consider using `@property` with the {{cssxref("@property/syntax","syntax")}} descriptor so the browser can properly compare computed values.

### Nested queries

Container queries can be nested within other container queries. The styles defined inside multiple nested container queries are applied when all of the wrapping container queries are true.

```css
@container style(--theme: red) {
  output {
    outline: 1px dotted;
  }
  @container style(--theme: purple) {
    output {
      outline: 5px dotted;
    }
  }
}
```

> In this case, the `<output>` will have a large dotted border if it's nested in a container where `--theme: purple` is set, and that container is nested within a container whose `--theme` value is `red`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the `<output>` will have a 5px dotted border if it's nested in a container where `--theme: purple` is set, and that container is nested within a container whose `--theme` value is `red`.
```

Style features that query a shorthand property will be true if the computed values match for each of its longhand properties, and false otherwise. For example, `@container style({{cssxref("border")}}: 2px solid red)` will resolve to true if all 12 longhand properties ({{cssxref("border-bottom-style")}}, etc.) that make up that shorthand are set to the same equivalent values.

The global CSS values `revert` and `revert-layer` are invalid as values in a `<style-feature>` and cause the container style query to be false.

Do not apply the styles you are querying in the style query to the element you are styling with that query as this may cause an infinite loop.

It is expected that style queries will also accept properties in a boolean context. The style query will return false if the value of the property is the initial value for that property (if it has not been changed), and true otherwise.

```css
@container style(font-weight) {
}
```

> The above example will return true for any element that has a value for `font-weight` that differs from its initial value. User-agent stylesheets set `font-weight: bold` for {{htmlelement("heading_elements", "heading")}} and {{htmlelement("th")}} elements, for example. Some browsers set {{htmlelement("strong")}} and {{htmlelement("b")}} to `bold`, others to `bolder`. {{htmlelement("optgroup")}} also sometimes has a `font-weight` other than `normal` set by the user agent. As long as the element's font-weight is not the default value for that user-agent, the style query will return true.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above example will return true for any element that has a value for `font-weight` that differs from its initial value. User-agent stylesheets set `font-weight: bold` for {{htmlelement("heading_elements", "heading")}} and {{htmlelement("th")}} elements, for example. Some browsers set {{htmlelement("strong")}} and {{htmlelement("b")}} to `bold`, others to `bolder`. {{htmlelement("optgroup")}} also sometimes has a `font-weight` other than `normal` set by the user agent. As long as the element's `font-weight` is not the default value for that user-agent, the style query will return true.
```

#### Standalone custom property queries

The `<style-query>` parameter of the `style()` functional notation can include just a CSS variable name; a custom property with no value. When no value is included, the query will return false if the value is the same as the value of the `initial-value` descriptor within the `@property` at-rule, if there is one. The style query will return true and match all elements that have a custom property value that differs from the `initial-value` or for all elements that have a custom property of any value if the custom property was declared without being registered.

```css
:root {
  --theme-color: rebeccapurple;
}

@container style(--theme-color) {
  /* <stylesheet> */
}
```

In this example, the container query matches the element on which the `--theme-color` property was declared and all of its descendants. As the CSS variable `--theme-color` was declared on the {{cssxref(":root")}}, the style query `style(--theme-color)` will be true for every element within that {{glossary("DOM")}}.

> #### Registered properties

Author: ```suggestion
#### Registered properties

```

- **Container style queries**
  - : Style queries enable applying styles to elements based on a containing element's style features. Any non-empty element can be a style query container. Currently, the only style feature supported by style queries is CSS [custom properties](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Using_CSS_custom_properties). In this case, the query returns true or false depending on the computed value of the containing element's custom properties. When container style queries are fully supported, they will enable you to apply styles to any element's descendants based on any property, declaration, or computed value — for example if the container is `display: inline flex` or has a non-transparent background color.

In this guide, we learn the basics of container queries by looking at:

1. [container size queries](#container-size-queries),
2. [naming containers](#naming_containers) to limit their scope, and
3. using the `style()` functional notation within the {{cssxref("@container")}} at rule's `<container-condition>` to create [style queries with custom properties](#style_queries_for_custom_properties).

## Container size queries

> Container size queries are filtered by a size condition. The associated styles are applied to contained elements if the container element has been declared to be a container and the container condition is true for that element.

Author: ```suggestion
Container size queries are filtered by a size condition. The associated styles are applied to contained elements if the container element has been declared to be a container and the container condition is true for that element. An element's size container is the nearest ancestor with containment.
```

```css
@container style(<style-feature>),
    not style(<style-feature>),
    style(<style-feature>) and style(<style-feature>),
    style(<style-feature>) or style(<style-feature>) {
  /* <stylesheet> */
}
```

The parameter of each `style()` function is a single **`<style-feature>`**. Per the CSS containment specification, a `<style-feature>` can be a valid CSS [declaration](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/syntax#css_declarations), a CSS property, or a [`<custom-property-name>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/var#values). The only style feature currently supported is custom properties, with or without a value. See the [browser compatibility table](#browser_compatibility).

If the `<style-feature>` includes a value, the style query evaluates to true if the computed value of the custom property (or, in the future, the CSS declaration) passed as the `style()` argument is true for the container being queried. Otherwise, it resolves to false.

> A style feature without a value evaluates to true if the computed value is different from the initial value for the given property.

Author: ```suggestion
A style feature without a value evaluates to true if the computed value is different from the [initial value](#registered_properties) for the given property.
```

    not style(background-color: red),
    style(--themeBackground),
    style(--themeColor: blue) or style(--themeColor: purple),
    (max-width: 100vw) and style(max-width: 600px) {
  /* <stylesheet> */
}
```

The `style()` functional notation is used to differentiate style queries from size queries. While not yet supported, we will eventually be able to query regular CSS declarations such as `max-width: 100vw`. Querying `@containers (max-width: 100vw)` is a size query; containment with {{cssxref("container-type")}}, or the {{cssxref("container")}} shorthand, is needed. That query will return true if the container is 100vw or less. That is different from querying `@containers style(max-width: 100vw)`, which is a style query; when supported, this query will return true if the container has a {{cssxref("max-width")}} value of `100vw`.

Until style queries for regular CSS declarations and properties are supported, we are limited to including only custom properties as the `style()` parameter, with or without a value:

```css
@container style(--themeBackground),
    style(--themeColor: blue) or style(--themeColor: purple) {
  /* <stylesheet> */
}
```

> A few things to note:

Author: ```suggestion
A few things to note that have already been mentioned but are important to remember:
```
